Hi guys, and welcome back.
In this video, we're going to talk
about list comprehensions.
List comprehensions are a feature of Python
that allows us to create new lists very succinctly
while also being very powerful.
Let's say you've got a list of numbers,
and you want to create a new list
which contains those numbers multiplied by two.
So you'd start with something like numbers equal
and the numbers from zero to four say,
and then you want double numbers to contain
those numbers, but every number multiplied by two.
What you'd have to do without a list comprehension
is you would have a for to go over each number
in the numbers list,
and then you would have to say double numbers dot append
to add a new number to the doubled numbers list,
and you can append number times two.
Then at the end, you can print doubled numbers.
So this would do what you want.
If you run this, you'll see that the output
is zero, two, four, six, eight.
Instead of doing this,
you can use a list comprehension which actually has
similar syntax in many places,
but it's much shorter,
and once you're accustomed to it,
it's also a little bit easier to read.
How you do that is you would say doubled numbers equals,
and then you start off with some brackets.
You put here the value that you want to use in the new list,
which would be number times two,
and then you put in something like
what you see in a for loop.
So this is a shorter way of doing
exactly this piece of code here.
You say, I wanna put in my new list number times two
where the number is each number is the numbers list,
and the syntax for that is again inside square brackets,
the value you want to create into the new list,
for the variable that you want to use,
in the list that you want to iterate over
to create this new list.
So again, it does exactly the same as this.
You create your new list.
It's right over the numbers list,
and add the new number into the new list
so you can just delete this and of course
move the print statement underneath so that it exists
when you print it and the output is exactly the same.
Now remember that instead of creating
your own list of numbers, you can use range,
so you can say in range five.
Now this is exactly the same.
You're still creating your new number variable
that only exists within this new list,
and you're iterating from zero to five,
and every iteration,
you're putting into your new list number times two.
Notice that here, you can put whatever you want,
so it doesn't have to be number times two.
It could just be five if you want,
and then what you would get out
would be five, five, five, five
because you are repeating five times,
and the value you're putting each time is five.
If you want, you can go back to number times two,
but again, just wanted to tell you
that anything goes in here.
You don't have to use this variable.
You can put whatever you want,
and like I mentioned earlier on in the course,
if you're not using the variable,
you normally use the underscore for it to signal
that you don't care about the variable in here.
Let's say you've got a list with your friends' ages,
and you want to create a new list which contains
a string describing your friend's age
for each of your friends.
So you could create something like age strings,
and in here, put an f-string.
My friend is age years old.
Now you want to create this string
for each element in this list,
so you would say for age in friend ages.
Let me just make this a bit bigger for you
so you can see it in one line.
So this is exactly the same structure as we had before.
You've got your brackets that signal
that you're creating a new list,
and then because of what's inside it,
you know it's a list comprehension.
You've got this for loop there,
and what you're putting into your new list
is this string, my friend is age years old,
and then you're creating the age variable
that you're gonna use for each of the values
in your friend ages list.
So you end up with one string for each age
where the age variable would be replaced into there.
So you can print age strings.
So you can see the output here is a list
with four elements, four strings, one for each age.
Now let's say you've got the names of some of your friends
like Rolf, Bob, and Jen,
and what you want is to apply a transformation
to each element so that you'll only get back
lower-case letters,
so Rolf will be turned to lower-case r-o-l-f,
Bob will get a lower-case b,
and Jen will get a lower-case j.
What you can do is you can create a new list
which will be a list comprehension,
and what you'll do here is name dot lower
which actually can be used on any string
to turn it into a lower-case string for name in names.
And again, you create the name variable
which will be each of the strings inside the names list,
and you're putting into your new list name dot lower,
every iteration, which will give you lower-case Rolf,
lower-case Bob, lower-case Jen.
So if we print this out,
you'll see the output there.
This is particularly useful for when
you want to work with user input.
For example, let's say you've got a list of friend names,
and you want the user to give you their name
so you can see if they're in the list.
It's possible that the user will type
lower-case or upper-case letters
which don't exactly match these strings.
So it can be useful to turn everything to lower-case
when you're doing comparisons
between your strings and user input.
For example, something like this.
You've got a friend variable which is some user input.
We ask them to enter their friend name,
and then you've got a friends list
which contains a bunch of friends.
If you wanna see whether the user's input is in this list,
you can do something like if friend in friends,
print friend is one of your friends.
So we can run this,
and if we enter Rolf say,
then we'll get Rolf is one of your friends,
but very often users will enter ROLF
or maybe lower-case rolf.
Maybe they can't be bothered entering the capital R,
or maybe their name is all in lower-case
as in some countries.
That is what happens.
So if we enter rolf with a lower-case r,
you see that nothing gets printed out
even though it probably should.
So what to do is create a new list
where each of the names is lower-case.
So friends lower can be named all lower
for name in friends,
and then, what we're gonna do is compare friend
against friends lower,
but if we do this and run it as-is,
when we type Rolf with a capital R,
it will no longer show as correct because now
we are comparing capital R Rolf with lower-case rolf
which is in this list.
So we also have to turn friend into lower-case
in order to have a fair comparison,
so we'll do if friend dot lower in friends lower,
then we will print out.
This has a benefit which is that now I can type Rolf
with a capital R,
and it says that it's one of my friends,
but I can also type rolf with a lower-case r,
and that's also fine.
Finally, I can type Rolf with any sort
of upper or lower-case letters, and it will be correct.
By the way, if you wanted to print this out
with the usual capitalization which is
the R upper-case and rest of the letters lower-case,
then that's called title casing,
and you can do that on the friend here by doing title.
So here I've typed ROLF with all upper-case letters,
but because we are printing friend dot title,
what that does is it turns it
into the traditional title casing
which is that every word in the string
will have the first letter as upper-case
and the other letters as lower-case.
So this can be just a small improvement,
and of course you can put this into a separate variable
if you prefer just like that.
So either goes; it's up to you.
So that's it for this video.
We have learned about list comprehensions which, to recap,
have a structure of the new value
that you wanna put into your list
for the variable that you wanna use for each iteration
in the interable that you wanna go over,
and this doesn't have to be a list by the way.
It could be a couple or a set or anything else.
In the next videos,
we're going to learn a bit more about list comprehensions,
including how to add conditionals to them
to make them a bit more flexible.
Thank you for joining me,
and I'll see you in the next video.